1 What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" --string
42  -- number
09/02/1945  --date
98.7  --float
$15.99 --float/currency

2 Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
Databases are used when we need to store the information and have it exist even when the program
is not running, or when multiple instances are running. If we will have changes to the data coming
from multiple users, the database will be able to manage these changes and also be searchable. A text file
would suffice for storing information that will not be changed/added to and only needs to be used
locally

3 Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
SQL is a declarative language, so we don't get to choose a search algorithm or define HOW it will 
do what we want, we just tell it what we want it to find and it determines how it will do that (vs
a procedural language where we have to define how each step will work very specifically)

4 In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
Databases store information in a binary file format. We interact with the database through an interface
like the command line or an application on a server. Databases are organized into tables, which are made up
of rows and columns, each containing cells. This organization allows us to effectively query the database
using SQL - we write commands telling the database what we want to find, and it returns the info we need
by searching through the table(s). 

5 Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
Relational databases store their information in the form of tables, their organizational structure.
Tables consist of vertical rows and horizontal columns, as in a spreadsheet. At the intersection of 
each row and column is a cell, an individual unit/location in which the database can store a value,
a piece of information. 

6 List three data types that can be used in a table.
Integers, strings, Objects

7 Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

// Will yield a new table consisting of 2 columns, date and amount, which will each have 
4 rows, full of the 4 dates and amounts from the original table

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

// Will yield a new table with a single column for amounts, and will include 3 rows with the 3 amounts
(other than the first one which is 1500)

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
//Will yield a table with all the columns (date, payee, amount, memo) from the row with the 
entry for Mega Foods

8 Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
	SELECT email, signup
	FROM users
	WHERE name = 'Deandre Data'

 // 2 columns, 'datad@comcast.net' and '2008-01-20'

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

	SELECT userid
	FROM users
	WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'
// Yields 1 column with 1

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
	SELECT *
	FROM users
	WHERE userid = 4
//4 columns: 4, 'Brandy Boolean', 'bboolean@nasa.gov', '1999-10-15'